okay folks this teachings going to be
specifically dealing with higher
timeframe concepts
you
okay the points in focus this module
will be talking about key levels what
makes a key level
price rejections
all right Sookie levels
we're looking at yearly highs and lows
that means the last 12 months and this
is a rolling calendar not a specific
January to December type of phenomenon
so whatever today is go back 12 months
and we'll see what the yearly high in
the low is respective to those points
okay monthly highs and lows
and finally weekly highs and lows so
what we're looking for is the long term
macro yearly highs and low to quarterly
monthly highs and lows and the
individual monthly highs and lows and
the weekly highs and lows now what do I
mean by weekly highs and lows we're
gonna look back last week's high and low
very simple monthly high and low we're
gonna look at the last three months high
and low and we're look at just the last
30 days or whatever the previous month
is it's high as tying this low and slow
and yearly again is a rolling calendar
from whatever today is go back 12 months
whatever the highest high and the lowest
low is we'll use that as a reference
point
okay price rejections
double-top sweeps that means when we see
price action creating very clean equal
highs or relatively equal highs we're
expecting that phenomenon to take place
for a price would drive above those
equal highs reject and trade lower
double bottom sweeps in other words just
reverse what it just said anytime on the
price action we see equal lows form we
would anticipate should price trade back
down to that level close to it it would
sleep below it run the cell size below
the equal lows and then reject and go
higher
and a simple run on old lows that means
running out a previous low and then
rejecting that going higher
and then runs on old highs which is the
obvious reverse what I've just mentioned
in Olos an old high gets traded through
pulse breakout and then returns back
into the range trading the opposite
direction
so I'm thinking kind of a field trip if
you will through price action we're
gonna go through the majors tonight and
I want to talk about some things that I
think that a new traitor should be
focusing on and how to use some of these
things to formulate an idea or
understanding to build foundation and
then start building on that with more
than concepts I'll be teaching in my
continuing series okay folks we're
looking at a dollar sharpness is the
daily and when we sit down to begin our
analysis lease for a higher time frame
standpoint this teaching is going to be
really aimed at those individuals that
cannot do a whole lot of intraday
charting or trading or day trading or
scalping
so climate analysis concepts where an
individual that has that limitation
it has that limitation
what is available in terms of analysis
or techniques that we can more or less
ferret out an opportunity to practice
with our demo account so what I like to
do is number one I like to cycle through
all the majors but I begin with the
dollar index and from a dollar daily
okay we can see that we have been
trading lower
ever since around August we've been
consolidating and going sideways now the
prevailing trend has been down for the
entire year on the dollar and we created
a rather significant low here and we've
rallied up so we've broken this high so
since this happened we've been
consolidating sideways but also notice
that we have traded below this low and
we've been inching higher so using the
things that I mentioned on beginning of
the video we look for relatively
obvious support resistance levels okay
long-term yearly highs and lows monthly
highs and lows quarterly highs and lows
and in previous weeks highs and lo I'm
not going to draw all those levels on
here
I'm not going to draw all this on there
because this could turn into a four-hour
video and it's really not essential you
can go through the charts and do that
and I'll do it with one chart in this
presentation real quick but the the idea
is first and foremost you want to see
where are we trading right now are we in
a trending model are we in a trading
range market right now we're in a range
bound market or could potentially be a
reversal so if we look at the trend it's
been lower we have potential reversal
point down here and we've gone sideways
so what could eventually happen is we
could shoot higher and aim for these
equal highs or we could roll right over
and make an attempt to go lower and
retest this low or try to trade down to
it and fail okay we don't know that so
but you don't need to know that see the
question I get a lot is well how do I
know if it's not gonna go below this low
with it wasn't stopped or if it goes to
it and continues well you have to figure
out where the market is right now and if
you believe it's going to go down there
that offers up a range
so you look for opportunities between
where you think it is right now if you
think it's going to go down to that low
that's your opportunity
okay that's your range of potential
profit but as it is here I like to look
at what was the most recent run on
liquidity
most recently we've had it trade above
this high and we sold off a little bit
and then we came right back
roaring higher trying to maybe run
through these equal highs again and if
we do that we may be reaching for these
equal highs notice also this low was
traded through with this slow so we've
already tried to go lower below this
love and it rejected it handsomely
we try to go above this high here try to
sell off but quickly came back now this
could still roll over and go lower but
right now we're at a crossroads where if
it goes any higher from here and always
we trade up above these equal highs that
may warrant a run to these equal highs
and if it does that that may be a
precursor to a run even higher okay or
because the time of the year we're at
the end of 2017 we're late in the month
of December this thing could just go
sideways between the high and the low
defined here and just stay at
equilibrium now the things you'll learn
with experience is there certain times a
year when the market is predisposed to
do certain things certain times of the
year is supposed to trend in certain
times a year it goes in the
consolidation right now typically we're
in a consolidation time okay if you look
back at the previous years okay we have
the market trending prior to it and then
went into consolidation then around
March we start trending down to around
August or September then it goes into
some consolidation again so the idea of
profiling I think is beneficial for you
because if you're looking at higher
timeframe charts but the main thing I
want you to take away from this
presentation is
even though you're not looking at lower
timeframes you're not scalping or day
trading those same price action concepts
still applying because price is fractal
that means the things that we would see
and expect to see unfold in the lower
timeframes just not tied to any real
time element we would still expect the
same phenomenon to occur on higher
timeframe charts like the daily if we go
over to the euro dollar you can see the
opposite has happened this market has
trended higher as the dollar index
itself traded lower
we've seen the market trade sideways as
we saw on the dollar index now again
let's take a look at some ideas here
we've had a high traded through it broke
down took out that swing low traded back
up and here broke it now we broke this
high we try to go higher and now we're
sitting with equal lows
we have these lows taken with this low
so again same scenario we could be stuck
in this range for the remainder of
December if I were a betting man and
forcing myself to take a trade where
we're at right now I would have let them
expect it to trade lower now will it gun
through these relative equal lows well
it looks a little bit cleaner for that
to occur in the opposite direction with
the dollar index because it equal highs
up here and the market could in fact try
to trade about these equal highs and
reach for that on the euro
we have a slightly lower low comparable
to this low but nonetheless we could be
overall retracing now why would that be
most likely took her and not higher is
because we've had the market move one
direction all year long then we went
consolidation and we broke above this
high here should I ran higher but now we
keep breaking a low okay so any further
movement below these equal lows I would
see that as momentum building to make an
attempt to get below these lows here now
how much further below that we had to
weigh that out and measure it at the
time but for now I would anticipate
because of the time of year we're in
late December the markets already moved
were kind of like long in the tooth if
you will for that move it would be
reasonable or healthy to expect it to
have some measure of retracement now if
it trades above this high then we would
be aiming for these highs to be taken
out and probably a measured move
something like this low to this high add
that range this low and you would get
some kind of a projection okay but right
now I'm thinking neutral to bearish on
the Eurodollar
Kable we've had a nice uptrending market
here and this one I had an ability to
get above and outside of this range in
here
and we trade up into almost this swing
high being taken out but this one's
actually a very difficult market to be
in right now it's not clear it's not
obvious as to what it would want to do
so even though we've had a nice move
earlier this year we've gone into a
condition where it's highly suspect in
terms of what would be the most likely
or probable direction it's gonna move
next now this looks like a classic chart
pattern where folks would probably see
that as maybe a bull flag and maybe
continuation the upside but thinking
about what I showed you in a dollar
index that kind of like negates this
doesn't mean it can't spike up air and
you do whatever it wants to do and run
against the scenario with the dollar
index for now I just think tit we may
end up seeing this thing go sideways
still or try to make an attempt to go
back below these equal lows here because
we've already cleared out the equal
highs spend some time up here no
follow-through yet but if we trade down
and break the middle of this range
defined by this high to this low
if you go back below that okay easiest
way to do if we get below this swing low
I think that would be fair enough if we
break that well we would say price try
to make an attempt to get down below
here to get these get these double
bottoms okay so we would expect a double
bottom sweep only quality here because
we've already seen a double top sweep
here and we're in uncertain conditions
for cable why because the dollar looks
like it wants to go higher and even
though the cable can go higher in that
environment because of some fundamental
factor that I don't know about and it
could happen and that's the risk we have
in trading that's why we have to have
stop losses and such but I don't see
that that's likely to occur given the
conditions in the market place here so
this payer I wouldn't touch
but if I hadn't gone to my head I would
be reaching for these equal lows because
of the dollar bullishness is outlined it
became the video halsy dollar this
market has gone back into the middle of
the range it doesn't have any real clear
direction we've had a move-up
retracement move up and now we retraced
we're essentially in the middle of the
range
okay so in terms of trading this would
probably be a good day trading pair but
it's a short-term trading or a swing
trading I wouldn't touch this one here
why because of that doesn't have a
defined movement and it's made an
attempt to get quickly back in the
equilibrium or the middle of the range
and the range is defined number one by
this low to this high and we're smack
that right in the middle of it right now
we tried to go lower but this run here
we've outlined this in a previous video
with SMT smart mining technique and we
value up taking out clean highs now it's
uncertain as to where it wants to go so
the move is done for Aussie dollar and
we would have to wait for a new setup so
the uncertainty and consolidation nature
of this pair would keep me on the
sidelines I wouldn't worry about trading
this one
New Zealand Dollars very similar we
would be looking for
similar conditions like with the Aussie
dollar but for this pair it looks even
worse because we've had an attempt to go
lower lower lower lower every low has
been taken out and we don't have any
kind of clear defined market structure
in here to work with so it best we
probably see it returned back to this
low here and what happens out that it's
anybody's guess so there's no real clear
market structure here to frame analysis
on whereas when we saw with the Dollar
Index and on the Euro there's potential
there
so there's clarity in euro dollar
wanting to potentially go lower and
dollar going higher every other pair
we've looked at so far is uncertain
dollar cad we've had an attempt to trade
lower below this low progressive and
then it came back roaring higher
eventually taking out this swing high
had a retracement nice optimal trade
entry long in here and we also have a
consolidation so it looks like we could
be another leg higher on dollar cad if
not for anything else i run on these
double tops so a double top sweep we
would look for that took her we've
already had double bottom swept here and
then rejection so we will be
anticipating a movement higher to clear
out the liquidity above these equal
highs and maybe they can attempt to go a
little bit higher up from the range
that's create from this high to this low
okay so
what I'm looking for is evidence of a
clear direction where it wants to go and
when we have areas where we just
recently had these equal lows taken out
we're here and we reject it we just
with this run here and it rejected and
it's also left these equal highs in
place so where is the most likely
direction going to be up and it's also
in favor with what I find in the dollar
index at the beginning of the video so
we could probably see a run higher so
there's two conditions that we were
looking for word euro dollar lower
dollar cad higher and dollar index
higher now again this is the condition
that I would see right now but the
probabilities are not as high because
we're so close to the holidays and it's
the end of the year end of the month but
I'm giving you how I would personally go
through the charts and study and look
for opportunities for price movement
just study how it unfolds in the daily
chart okay and then we have the dollar
Swissy kind of like what we've seen with
the Aussie dollar and it doesn't have a
real directional bias yet we do have
price coming down below these equal lows
we ran through that and rejected so we
may have an attempt to get back above
here but if you go a little bit to the
left further we have relative equal
highs here so if we have that dollar
bullishness you could see another leg
higher to reach above these equal highs
so I don't like that one so much but if
we want to talk about probable levels to
reach for dollar Swissy we could
possibly see it trade up to that level
great view
and finally the dollar yen okay and this
pattern is a really obvious trading
range okay
this payers had a real hard time finding
its way out of this range and it's going
to add on the levels to save time
[Music]
and
what we're looking at here
okay what we're looking at here I have
the double bottoms and old highs noted
and also have the yearly high to find
with this range here looking back 12
months and we have it
defiant the end of this month here would
be 12 full months and also have the
ranges with the quarterly
okay so here's March and it takes us to
June September and we're in December now
and then obviously you can go through
and add the individual vertical lines
the daleney what the into individual
monthly highs and lows are I don't wanna
hang and all that because it would make
the chart really busy and the question
is just you know well how many levels
would you have well you're only going to
worry about the ones that's right now
like right now where we're treating out
here the range is defined by while we
just recently came off this low and we
just recently left this high so we're
inside that range here
okay we're a little little bit less than
halfway below that so if we're expecting
bullishness on the dollar we would
reasonably expect the dollar yen to make
an attempt to get higher
the problem with this pair is it's
really stuck in a range so you don't
want to trade it in the middle of the
range you want to trade it when it gets
down to an old low you want to
anticipate it running a know low like it
did these equal lows here run that and
then we rally okay we have equal lows
here we'd like to see it trade down
maybe take those out and then rally up
or just leave it where it's at and start
running higher we had equal highs here
it punched through it here and then
trade little lower
we had equal lows here 1 2 3 4 ran
through it and also reach below this low
here so what we're looking for is bold
lows to be ran out which it does here
and then rejection what makes the
rejection it trades back above it old
low once that happens you would look for
an old high or equal highs to reach for
here's an old high it goes trade to that
we have no high here doesn't get to that
it fails here trades back down it goes
back below this old hi
what's it going to reach for possibly
this old low here he trades back up to
this level here as a key level this is
this reason why it makes these levels
key by having defined ranges that are
generic they're not dynamic they're not
ambiguous they are specific okay
previous weeks highs and lows monthly
highs and lows quarterly highs and lows
yearly highs and lows and by focusing
only on those and trading when it gets
to those levels and nothing else okay
we're not trading in here because on a
daily timeframe you're stuck you're you
have to wait for longer-term setups so
you're gonna have to wait for these
levels to trade back to this high trade
through it maybe reject it okay and wait
for that key a little close you'll come
home from work and see that it's done
that okay so what do you do in Asia you
can go short or you can look at the open
at Asia and maybe trade above the
opening at Asia and then sell short
there but I stopped above that high and
it may be a lot of pips because of the
daily range but again this is for people
that cannot de trade what you're gonna
be looking for well we have this low
down here we can hold for that and it
takes a long time many many weeks go by
before it ends up blowing out that low
here so you could have made profit
between this price point here and here
same scenario when we see this low here
price trades down below it we wait for
it to do what come back above it it does
it here so we could be a buyer on this
day here
and look for what price to trade to wear
this old high why because we have equal
highs so price trades above it and
there's your opportunity right there
this becomes another trade because we
have equal highs it's it's rally through
that what you can be reaching for market
below these equal lows so it could be a
seller on the long position and go short
looking for a run below these equal lows
here and it does that here okay we take
your profits and because we've taken
equal loads we can anticipate a rally
again since we had this high take out
these equal highs here we've never came
back to this high yet so that would be
the next level of upside I would expect
need to be traded to and if we get
momentum through that you can see these
double tops taken out okay and that's
pretty much what I teach new traders to
start with
they're stuck only on this timeframe it
takes a lot of time for the setups to
form they cannot do anything else until
it trades to these types of levels why
because this is a highest probability
levels yes you can do day trading
entries but again this whole teaching
was focused primarily on individuals it
cannot be on short-term timeframes they
don't have a lot of time and they have
to be looking for something only on a
daily chart this is how you would do it
so there's a lot of things that you know
we could add to this but I don't want to
do too much of that because again if
you're on this timeframe you're probably
very new in your development and I don't
want to give you a lot of things to
worry with just start looking for double
tops and old highs and whole lows and
double bottoms and draw circles on that
make a notation on your chart this this
lie this high here and this high here
yes we went above a little bit and
reject it but these are relatively equal
highs so price could come back through
that again and it does but notice it
leaves this high intact so this is an
untapped area of liquidity and you're
probably saying well who has a stop up
there large funds that's what the market
reaches for it's not your retail stop
now your retail stop is going to be
placed where the books tell you and it's
going to be the wrong place but the
markets go to large liquidity pools on
the basis of other institutional traders
or large funds the markets all designed
to go after that okay your retail stop
they can't see it they don't know where
it's at it's not important to them
because you're such a small little blip
on the radar in terms of liquidity they
can't pay anything out with you so large
funds they're trading billions of
dollars many times and that will have a
large area of interest for buying and
selling and the market will gravitate to
those levels but they're going to be
relative to these highs these lows in
these double tops and
double bottoms and you can see how the
market goes right to them and then
starts to look for the other side of the
marketplace so from a higher time
standpoint basically all you're gonna be
looking for our obvious double tops and
double bottoms and single highs and
single lows and where the market most
recently came from just find the
opposite direction where the liquidity
would be below the lows right here now
this if it wasn't double bottom or equal
loads like this say this was not a low
this would be sufficient and not because
that's where it sells tops would be
after running buy stops above here the
markets gonna go lower seeking what
liquidity once you take that once it
takes that liquidity out below that low
it's gonna do what easy they're gonna
keep going lower for a lower level
liquidity which it shouldn't because
we've already had many attempts to go
here here here here and then we're out
of the way so if we go below here we
want to see it trade higher what's it
going to reach for we have this short
term high it reached above and then we
have
this high rate in here okay so there's
liquidity above that one and we
certainly have liquidity about there and
ultimately if we get momentum above that
we could see these stops right yeah and
that would be an agreement with bullish
dollar as well because the first
currency in this pair is the dollar
against the end so dollar strength in
the index would promote strength in this
pick
hopefully you enjoyed this presentation
and you can find more at the inner
circle trader.com